good evening I'm Andrew Chang tonight
the desperate search for survivors and
her answers she's going to be very very
sadly missed off the coast of Greece
another Canadian tragedy I'm Adrian
arsenault also tonight beware the COBIT
19 scams I was actually very devastated
scared as if the virus wasn't bad enough
it's just like the perfect storm
renters worry on the eve of a new month
and so do landlords and living with the
flooding in Alberta we had minutes to
get out hard earned experience tells
them hard days are ahead this is the
National
[Music]
less than two weeks after 22 people were
murdered in Nova Scotia another tragedy
for that province and this country
Canada and its NATO allies now looking
for a crashed military helicopter off
the coast of Greece of the six Canadians
aboard one is confirmed dead
sub-lieutenant
Abigail Cobra the others haven't been
found and each passing day makes that
less and less likely their families and
fellow service members aboard HMCS
Frederickson are trapped between hope
and grief and you can see that in the
home port Halifax where people are
paying respects and holding out for any
good news now to lose a loved one is
always devastating but as Kayla Hansell
explains for many this tragedy is
compounding already fresh pain it was
one week ago sub leftenant
Abigail Cobra deployed on HMCS
Fredericton offered this tribute to the
victims of Nova Scotia's mass shooting
now at just 23 Cobra herself has become
the victim of a terrible tragedy
she was on board the CH 148 cyclone
helicopter when it crashed the Navy just
filled her life it was everything she
ever dreamed of a graduate of Canada's
Royal Military College she was a marine
systems engineering officer she was a
loving giving young woman and just lit
up every room that she walked into she's
going to be very very sadly missed
Cobras body has been recovered five
others are still missing Naval Warfare
Officers sub-lieutenant Matthew Pike
from Nova Scotia and four members of the
aircrew pilots captain Brendan McDonald
also from Nova Scotia and captain Kevin
Hagan from Nanaimo British Columbia
captain Maxime Mir Gamora from twat
Riviera Quebec and master corporal
Matthew cousins from Guelph Ontario all
based in Halifax
all of them are heroes each of them will
leave a void that cannot be filled she
is just like the most lovable person you
would ever meet pastor Jason Cole
considered Abigail Cobra a personal
friend he's also now guiding her church
community through grief at a time when
there is just so much grief in the
province she called home this is not the
way that God intended and God made a
perfect world humanity botched it and he
offers a salvation through his son
Avigail believed that I believe that
when she posted this video Cobra who
moved to Nova Scotia as a teenager wrote
you can travel the world and still never
meet anyone like an East Coaster glad to
have been taken in by them for I'd have
it no other way
she is remembered as bold brave and a
proud Canadian Kayla Huntsville CBC News
Halifax investigators don't yet know
what happened and as Marie Brewster
explains they're facing a formidable
challenge the Ionian Sea at sunset deep
and dark as seen through the windscreen
of a Turkish military helicopter the
frantic search today for five missing
Canadians cyclone
had conducted flight operations and was
returning to the ship at approximately
6:52 p.m. the ship lost contact with
aircrew and a few minutes later flares
were spotted in the water a
five-year-old cyclone helicopter had
been in the air a little over two hours
when something went catastrophic Olear
Ong and it inexplicably slammed into the
ocean and sank as far as we know there
in about 3000 meters of water and that
depth will present perhaps the biggest
challenge to the recovery a large debris
field on the bottom indicates the
helicopter broke apart 3,000 meters
presents an insurmountable challenge for
the Royal Canadian Navy which means we'd
have to seek assistance from allies or
possibly from a commercial operator
defense minister Harjit Sajjan told cbc
news tonight all options including the
use of ally diving vehicles are being
considered investigators have recovered
the flight data recorders they will be
analyzed at the National Research
Council in Ottawa all operation of cycle
and helicopters is paused but the Air
Force expects to get back to business
soon I do not have any safety concerns
at the moment the cyclone helicopters
were only recently brought into service
replacements for the Air Force's five
decade old Sea Kings some of the 28 on
order are still being delivered and
Sikorsky the maker of the cyclone has
dispatched a team to assist in the
investigation Marie Brewster CBC News so
this model of Sikorsky helicopter has
had other accidents those include the
2009 disaster off of Newfoundland that
killed 17 people and a 20-17 crash in
Ireland that killed all four on board
now to the latest developments in
northern Alberta where communities are
ravaged by flooding the ice jam on the
Athabasca River has been melting due to
warmer weather it's now half of what it
was but the damage is done for the more
than 13,000 people who were forced to
flee their homes starting five days ago
of them from Fort McMurray and remember
just four years ago wildfires wreaked
havoc on this part of the country
rafi bougie Canyon shows us that once
again the people here are exiles from
disaster we got some food we got some
water pick up time at the donation
center just the bare necessities
luxuries now for those who fled home
fast
the police were knocking on her door
they said we had minutes to get out that
was Sunday
sherry Horlick and her family left with
almost nothing now they've been able to
stock up thanks to the efforts of this
volunteer Center if we wanted to donate
twenty sandwiches to the firefighters
and police and responders Billy Martin's
brainchild
he owns a sandwich shop in Fort McMurray
then it turned into 300 sandwiches for
the evacuees and it turned into turned
into this with a couple phone calls and
Facebook posts but in the midst of a
public health pandemic concerns
stretched beyond material needs Horlicks
temporary shelter is a crowded oil sands
work camp cuz there's so many people you
know anybody just a little cough and you
think oh my god goodness you know then
there are those who had already lost so
much Carolyn boudreaux's condo burned
down in the 2016 wildfire and she's fled
her new place because of the floodwaters
definitely wonder like what next what's
next is there anything else
tornado maybe I win tornado country I
don't think so but I'm trying to see
the light at the end of the tunnel that
light may be further away than some
might hope up to seven more days for
full reentry into the community we need
a number of conditions to be met in
order for residents to return to their
communities safely those conditions
include flood walk flood water no longer
being an imminent threat and only then
will it be clear the full scope of what
needs to be rebuilt
Rafi BG Canyon CBC News Fort McMurray
cases of kovat 19 have now reached every
province and territory in Canada today
none of it confirmed its very first case
someone in Pond Inlet it's not yet known
how that person got infected across the
country Canada now has more than 53,000
confirmed cases more than 3,200 people
have died so that number of lives lost
is known but what lies behind it who the
victims are how they lived how else they
might be linked is not those details
aren't released in statistics so CBC
News has made it a mission to gather
that information we're calling the
project lies remembered Rene Philip Oni
with some of what we're learning these
are some of the people lost in just the
first weeks of the pandemic the first
1,000 part of a database compiled by CBC
News Helen George hall was a hundred and
two one of the oldest to die her
daughter says she spent years
documenting family history throughout
her long life she maintained an
exceptionally positive disposition she
recently had
a pacemaker put in and the nurse that
had been looking after her said Helen
and I'm not gonna see it tomorrow it's
my day off
I hope everything goes well and mum said
oh don't worry it will at the other end
of the spectrum
Nicole Hoffman in her 20s she's Canada's
youngest known victim of Kovan 19 her
fiance has started a fundraiser to honor
her love of animals our data found the
gender split was fairly even that 8 out
of 10 deaths were people over the age of
70 and while most were retired those
still working were diverse from health
care workers to a youth worker a high
school custodian and a musician in one
case a mother and daughter with a close
bond 93 year old Ruth Shepherd and her
56 year old daughter Tammy very sweet
relationship very special Tammy lived
with my grandmother her whole life the
pair had recently moved into this
nursing home hit hard by kovin 19 Tammy
shepherd died six days after her mother
so much about Canada's first 1000 deaths
is still unknown in provinces like BC
and Alberta demographic information is
provided regularly in other places that
level of detail is difficult to get all
the while the death toll in Canada rises
daily past 3000 now renee Phillip Oni
CBC News Vancouver so as we said those
stories are important to tell they help
us see past that enormous statistic that
death toll into the true human loss if
you want to share the story of someone
you lost to this virus reach out to us
at covent at cbc.ca Alberta has joined
other provinces and unveiling its plan
to relax public health restrictions what
we need to do is manage the risk and and
that's what our relaunch strategy is
based on premier Jason County says the
multistage plan will begin Monday with
the resumption of some surgeries and
reopening for some health care providers
like dentists and physiotherapists
it'll be mid-may though before
non-essentials like shops bars and
restaurants can open their doors cannot
wait this out we must adapt and adjust
their lives living with COBIT 19
Newfoundland and Labrador introduced its
own plan today following New Brunswick's
lead to immediately allow people to
expand their social bubbles to include
one other household may eleventh was
also said as a target date where if
certain conditions are met some low-risk
businesses could reopen and certain
medical procedures would resume now of
all the provinces and territories Quebec
has been hardest hit by covert 19 but it
also has the most ambitious target for
relaxing restrictions starting Monday in
most of the province and just a week
later in Montreal Alison Northcott shows
us why that's causing anxiety especially
in outbreak hot spots as Quebec moves to
slowly start reopening in the coming
weeks officials in the borough of
Montreal North are working to contain an
outbreak and some want more time the
Quebec government says it's watching
things closely here and in several
montreal hospitals hit by outbreaks at
this one the virus is complicating
things in the emergency room and some
worry the reopening could push it to the
limit if we see another surge of the
kovat while we're still in the first
surge then it's not gonna be nice it's
gonna be a really a problem I think the
premier acknowledges the battle in
Montreal isn't over and says his plan to
reopen schools daycares and some
businesses over the next month can
change if conditions demand it it's time
to be more disciplined than ever if we
stop our efforts and the situation
doesn't improve in Montreal I won't
hesitate to push back the reopening he
says the outbreak in most of Quebec is
under control but still expects more
cases and more deaths in the coming days
this ER doctor says hospitals should be
able to handle a new
wave if restrictions are eased carefully
and it's well control but the nurses
union says its members are already
stretched and worried about what might
come next they feel extremely stress by
knowing that because of course going to
increase drastically the province says
it will ramp up testing in Montreal
north in the coming days and across
Quebec in the coming weeks
Alison Northcott CBC News Montreal for
millions of Canadians rent is due
tomorrow but with businesses shuttered
and so many people out of work some
won't be able to pay miss Bryer Stewart
explains others are choosing not to
every night in Metro Vancouver people
cheer for health care workers on these
balconies everyone is a renter including
at this building where Ryan and Kathleen
live the couple didn't want their last
names used we both lost our jobs
basically early on in March got lots of
debt from the winter credit cards and
stuff so it's like it's just like the
perfect storm
Kathleen is receiving the federal
government's emergency benefit and Ryan
is on e a they didn't pay rent last
month and won't in May either we kept
what would have been around and spent it
on food and basic stuff across Canada
about a third of households rent BC
launched a $500 rent subsidy more than
50,000 people applied but many are
finding out they're ineligible because
their income was too high last year the
next couple of months are gonna be very
very critical David Hackney ak is with
the group representing landlords in the
province
he says the federal government should
have launched a rental supplement
program as well because if tenants don't
pay landlords who rely on the monthly
income to pay their own mortgages could
be in financial trouble renters are
suffering and unhappy and so is our
sector because you know there's
moratoriums on evictions and rents are
not being paid
Putney acts organization conducted a
survey and found 10% of BC landlords
were not paid any rent in April and
there are fears the number could be
higher in May there's a campaign
underway urging tenants to organize and
join a rent strike that means both in
keeping their rent today and in pushing
back and resisting any attempts to evict
tenants that have made that decision
down the line Brian and Kathleen say it
doesn't make sense to pay part of the
rent because it won't protect them from
being evicted
once bans are lifted so they're meeting
with neighbors who are in a similar
situation and hope when this is over
they won't all be forced to find a new
place to live Breyer Stewart CBC News
New Westminster BC the anxiety even
desperation of Canadians in a cash
crunch is just what scammers look for
and prey on and these days they're at at
big time we've got a couple of stories
tonight to give you a sense of what to
watch for
starting with mukhda Governor Selassie's
look at loan offers to avoid like other
businesses the kppen pandemic has taken
a big bite out of this couple's doggie
daycare we're getting about three or
four dogs a day that's a 75% cut in
revenue after researching loans online
he got an unsolicited offer from First
Capital Canada for a twenty thousand
dollar loan look legitimate but there
was a catch I had to put up a bunch of
money in order to get a loan it didn't
make a lot of sense to me
it's called an advance fee loan
according to the Better Business Bureau
it's illegal victims don't get the loan
or their money back I think scammers are
taking advantage of the pandemic to try
to get more money because they know that
a lot of Canadians right now are gonna
be strapped for cash take a look at the
Better Business Bureau scam tracker now
this shows complaints from across the
country from people saying they lost
hundreds or thousands of dollars
including this woman in Ontario who we
agreed not to identify because of her
job she says she paid almost four
thousand dollars up front to secure a
twenty thousand dollar loan from Belford
capital service but the loan never came
two companies two identical contracts so
the company that offered her the loan
its website is now down as for the
company that Terri was dealing with
first Capital Canada its website was
only registered two weeks ago so we
called them up we tried several times he
hung up mock together Celeste CBC News
Toronto the scam this next story
highlights begin with the text and some
apparently good news but there is a
catch
let Katie Nicholson take it from there
it was for me it was convincing because
I actually didn't know if they would
send me a text or not after losing her
restaurant job Johanna G an accomplice
had applied for the CRB so she didn't
think much of it when she got this text
I basically had to sign into my bank
which was my card number and then my
password for my online banking and then
after that it was a bunch of other
personal questions that's when she
realized she was being scammed I felt
that my money was gonna be taken out of
my account so I was actually very
devastated and scared she called her
bank and the Canadian anti-fraud centre
turns out she's one of the lucky ones in
the last two months the CAFC has
received 739 reports linked to kovat 19
scams in total 178 victims have lost a
combined 1.2 million dollars
it's the heightened sense of anxiety or
fear that exists the isolation that
people in right now is ultimate key
factor essentially frauds are designed
to get people to not think straight so
it's a prime time for scammers across
just one in particular praise on
coronavirus fears a message telling
victims they've been exposed to someone
who tested positive for kovat 19 when
you click on the link it infects your
ughter with malware so how can you
protect yourself well as far as the CRB
goes the federal government says it will
never ask you to apply or notify you of
a payment through text or email
Katie Nicholson CBC News Toronto several
US states are pushing ahead with plans
to reopen tomorrow
I'm tired of little by debate with
somebody that I look up next the very
real concerns in the southern US tonight
and later we check in with Bianca on
dress code where are you I'm in my
basement this is where I live now how
the Canadian tennis superstar is staying
active while staying home and tonight's
moment is a moment we are all waiting
for a post quarantine hug from
Newfoundland we're back into
you
welcome back here some of the
International stories were watching
tonight the British prime minister says
there is reason for hope in the fight
against kovat 19 and so I can confirm
today that for the first time we are
past the peak of this disease in his
first press conference since recovering
from the virus himself
Horace Johnson said he will unveil a
plan next week to reopen the UK but he
warned an even bigger outbreak could
occur if it's not done right the UK has
the second highest death toll in Europe
at nearly 27,000 by tomorrow dozens of
US states will have at least partially
reopened and many more will do so in the
coming days but many experts warn this
is too much too soon
prompting fears of another wave of
infections Georgia was on the forefront
of that push to reopen to the dismay of
many Katie Simpson was there and spoke
to those concerned about the impact on
one community in particular eight months
pregnant cher salmon knows there's risk
in returning to work the single mom
applied for grants and loans so she
wouldn't have to reopen her salon but
didn't qualify I have no choice I have
to get back to work if I if there was a
choice I would be closed still good to
see you with the reopening of some
non-essential businesses there is
concern in Georgia's african-american
community the public health crisis may
worsen I wish that the governor would
just chill out and let us and let this
thing fly it in and then we can
everything everybody can go back to work
not just you know the front line who are
mostly black you know in this in this
situation
Kevi Williams has paused his music
mentoring program for inner-city kids
and he questions the governor's decision
to reopen salons barber shops and
restaurants where low-wage workers are
often people of color doesn't seem like
he's thinking about us it's like we're
not even a thought in the matter you
know exposure in Georgia is a worry as a
new study there finds 80% of copn 19
patients who need hospitalization are
african-american Mack Willis and his two
sons are recovering from the disease
he says the crisis must be used to
address the long-standing systemic lack
of access to health care one reason why
this has been so devastating for African
Americans the coroner in Georgia's
hardest-hit County understands the need
to reopen the economy but with his rural
morgue full he's urging people to stay
home Katie Simpson CBC News Atlanta
Georgia ahead on the national an issue
looks at the politics of reopening
Quebec is the hardest hit province so we
look at why it's moving faster than
others and whether that is a political
gamble and we will be taking on some of
your kovat 19 questions including this
one I'm hearing more about the
possibility of airborne transmission is
this possible the answer after this
[Music]
welcome back it is time to answer your
kovat 19 questions and joining me
tonight infectious diseases specialist
dr. Leonora sac singer hello to you and
let's get started this this first
question that we've got we've been
getting since the very start of all of
this I'm hearing more about the
possibility of airborne transmission is
this possible and if we don't know
shouldn't we assume the worst yes this
is a very contentious issue and I think
there's been a lot of more lab based
studies now suggesting this possibility
and it is a possibility
I think it's reassuring though that you
know the WTO stance the CDC stance are
supported by the actual observation that
this infection seems to spread mostly
from one person to two to three other
people in most of the studies where as
airborne infections where that's the
main mode of transmission usually spread
to a much greater number of people like
eight to twelve because you can contact
them through entering an airspace well
after the infected person has left so it
still looks like this infection is
primarily spread from an infected person
and you have to be in fairly close
contact to them or in contact with their
secretions by touching your hands and
then touching your face right and so the
overall pattern I think is reassuring
okay that's interesting here's a
question about the potential solution to
all of our problems will the kovat 19
vaccine be alive vaccine and will it be
safe for all people right so there's
more well over 70 now I think vaccine
candidates that are being evaluated and
as far as I know I don't think any of
them are alive viruses most of them are
using subunits of the virus and
purifying them so there would be no risk
of actually acquiring the infection from
the vaccine it's just a specific part of
the virus meant to elicit an immune
response so I think that the vaccines
that make it through the trials will be
very safe for anybody okay will the
covert 19 vaccine be more effective than
the flu vaccine well we don't even know
for sure that we'll have an effective
vaccine but I think the odds are good
and I'm thinking that what we see so far
is that the vaccine will not need to be
changed seasonally the way the influenza
vaccine needs to be changed and so in
that way
I think it would be likely to be more
effective okay
dr. sac singer we'll leave it there I
always enjoy speaking with you though
thanks so much for your time
oh thank you very much and as we've
mentioned we will be asking your
questions about Copa 19 as often as we
can so send them in messages directly on
Instagram at CBC the national or send us
an email at Kovac at cbc.ca just be sure
to put the national in the subject line
ahead on the national a post quarantine
family reunion a simple hug is our
moment as Newfoundland and Labrador
relax retreat but up next Rosie's here
with that issue Adrian as the provinces
unveiled their reopening strategies is
Quebec moving too fast
compared to its neighbors tonight we're
looking at the political stakes and
risks from Tao Andrew and Althea will
join all of us right after the break
for the latest corona virus pandemic
updates breaking news and top stories
download the CBC News app now across the
country provinces are moving forward
with their own plans for reopening but
the province with the highest number of
new cases Quebec has become a bit of an
outlier moving faster on some fronts
than others premier France will ago
addressed some of that criticism today
if we stop our efforts and the stration
doesn't improve in Montreal I won't
hesitate to push back the reopening so
how much of a political gamble is this
for Quebec it's Thursday and I'm here
with that issue
Chantal a bear is in Montreal Andrew
Coyne is in Toronto and Althea Raj here
in Ottawa all of them working from their
homes okay I didn't want to talk about
Quebec because I you know I I understand
I hear what the premier says every day I
certainly understand that there are
different restrictions outside of
Montreal rather than inside Montreal
which is really the epicenter for the
province certainly but I'm still not
sure whether this is a too big a health
risk guess whose own public health
officer says it's a bit of a gamble or
whether this is really a big political
risk for him so I'll start with you
Chantal because you are in Montreal it's
both if France when ago was earned the
top scores for approval over his
handling of the crisis and he still
enjoys I believe the confidence of the
vast majority of Quebecers but you have
to be careful to take him at his word as
in Quebec may be moving fast but it has
not moved yet yes and that has been made
really clear it will always be something
of a gamble to decide when you do jump
in that water that is reopening and it
is a fact that beyond the numbers
outside Montreal the pandemic
is very much under control and in
Montreal they the hotspots really are
centered on on old-age homes and
long-term care homes but for sure
premier on-the-go has a lot of capital
and he's put a hell of a lot of it on
the table on this and and the the Prime
Minister andrew has been asked about it
all through the week and very reluctant
in part because it is Quebec but maybe
it would be with any province to
criticize or say anything about the
approach that Quebec has taken it is
there anything he can do or say in this
instance if we get two weeks down the
road and it doesn't look like it's the
right time
he's got relatively few levers most most
of this is within provincial
jurisdiction and he wants to preserve I
think capital with the other with the
provinces with the premiers to continue
the kind of cooperation and
collaboration I think we have been
seeing a fair bit of through this crisis
and that's a great asset for the country
it does have implications for
neighboring provinces you have one
province or another has a renewed
outbreak because unless we're gonna
absolutely continue to keep the border
sealed between the provinces which is
not good for the health of the
Federation or the economy then you know
you could see people migrating from one
province to another and causing problems
for the neighboring provinces some risk
is permissible in this we it was worth
it to shut down the economy to prevent
an out-of-control outbreak that would
have killed tens of thousands it's not
worth it to keep it closed to get you
know the caseload down to zero we just
want to make sure we keep it manageable
the question is is whether this is smart
risk and I think the remaining item for
concern is we do not have the testing
capacity as of yet to be able to do what
the all the experts say we have to do
which is to be able to pounce on every
case that crops up in future what do you
think Althea is this a risk I mean not
only for my help public health
perspective but as we talked about a
political aspect of perspective here for
the Quebec premier I think the risks
exist for every provincial creamer that
opens I mean the provincial premiers
have been front and center to this to
the pandemic response and so if it goes
badly they will for sure where is I
think what's important to stress is that
Premier League old like frankly every
other provincial premier has said
clearly that they're taking baby steps
and if anything pops up then they're
they're ready and they're willing to go
back a few steps not just hit the pause
button but the reverse decisions and and
go back to full lockdown
I think that it going to be really
important for people to know why this
isn't are happening what the risk is why
why can they go to the barber shop but
they can't go to the movie theater and
the easing of interprovincial movement
is going to be really important that
that is very well coordinated and for
example Quebec and Ontario we already
knows that the border is not going to be
reopening tomorrow first yeah yeah
should I tell you one in there two
points I think possibly Ontario other
provinces are not unhappy to see the
premier with the most political capital
test the water to see what happens
because the political risk is actually
real but the other reality that one has
to acknowledge and you don't need to be
a public health expert at this point to
have realized that this that public
health experts will have different
opinions you know like for example
Pramila and they'll go today talking
about how there are 44,000 kovat cases
and long-term homes and the province and
basically is just telling the population
brace for it more people are going to
die there will be many many many more
deaths as what you told people like that
maybe is tolerable for Quebecers but
maybe you know it would not be so
tolerable for these minders I I don't
know but I think that there is that
there is a there is a regional
difference and there people have
different stocks different provincial
leaders have the ability to say certain
things that others do not
I'll let I respond and then I'll get
Andrew to wrap it up yeah okay let's be
real the way that people heard Premier
Li go on this today was not I'm allowing
people to die it was that this is
happening and these people will probably
not be saved which is a very diff
propositions it's not a tolerance issue
it's an information issue this is
happening to all their people and it's
going to be very hard to reverse that
curve in those settings but I will say
Andrew and I'll get you to respond that
dr. Tam actually this week said when
asked about Quebec there is there will
be different
Taal of different tolerance for risk
across the country not particularly in
Quebec or another place but it is up to
people to to to mitigate that how far
they're willing to push themselves in
their population Andrew yeah there is
actually some polling data that suggests
co-packers are a bit more tolerant of
opening up a little sooner than other
provinces and that may be part of the
political mix as well and the need to
take some chances is apparent because
the cost of the economy is absolutely
extraordinary we're finding out new data
on that every day that being said if
it's a choice between going a little bit
slower and and doing the testing versus
going a little bit faster and having to
take them back having to put the control
back on I would go for the former the
cost in terms of public morale and
business confidence of them to reimpose
controls after they've been taken off I
think would be enormous
ok don't leave it there guys thank you
so much if you want to hear more from
the three of these guys you can
subscribe to at issue the podcast for
extra content this week we're going to
talk about something completely
different the conservative leadership
raised it was paused now it's back on
look for it on ending major podcast app
our website cbc news dot CA slashed the
national and with that it's back to
Adrian and Andrew in Toronto just ahead
she's off the court but Bianca and
rescue is still in the game I need there
were some glitches we talked to her
virtual performance and her new
competitive outlet next but first as we
go to break tonight's kovat nineteen
how-to guide some advice and a reminder
that's about to become more important
than ever
over time it's become easier to convince
friends and family to take physical
distancing seriously but it is a
challenge that will crop up again if
Canadians get too comfortable and let
their guard down you don't know which
side of this you're gonna you don't know
doctors say because not all young people
are resilient the same way not all
elderly people are vulnerable if you get
infected you roll the dice and we do
know that you can be infected and
contagious without feeling a single
thing one approach is to sort of appeal
to the greater good and say look you
know you may not be susceptible but
people who are older people with chronic
diseases people with weak immune systems
are and you might expose them so do this
for their sake if we follow best
practices yes it will all have felt like
an overreaction but that's the point the
best case scenario if we all stay away
from other people is that nothing
happens
I'm Tom power when I thought I might get
a TV show I never thought it would be
from my actual living room I'll be
chatting with all sorts of great people
artists first responders and you watch
water you had Sunday at 8:00 on CBC and
CBC Jim CBC listen here it all here
download today I'm Jamie puss Owen
tomorrow on CBC's Daily News podcast
front-burner
a longtime investigation into fashion
mogul Peter Nygaard and the shocking
sexual assault allegations from 46 women
including at least 17 Canadians
subscribe wherever you get your podcasts
hi my name is Carmelo kooky I'm in my
mid-40s and I'm a resource teacher with
the Toronto Catholic District School
Board part of the work I do is embrace
new technologies and deliver help to
teachers using this 3d printer we're
producing personal protection equipment
for our healthcare workers my specialty
is steam integrating science technology
engineering art and math we've produced
50 of these headers for the Michael
Guerin hospital we're a family of five
and every room becomes a homework space
projects in the living room 3d printing
well we do our best to help where we can
but I'm hopeful for is that people
become really appreciative of the fact
that they can just go out and see family
and be with friends in public places and
really enjoy being around each other's
company
so teaching is just one of the jobs up
ended by this pandemic another tennis
superstar
if 2020 was going according to anybody's
plan
Canada's own Bianca and rescue would be
prepping for a serious summer of
competition but instead she's at home
finding her own way through this so we
dropped by virtually to say hi where are
you I'm in my basement this is where I
live now my parents are right about now
Bianca and rescue of giant Canadian
tennis pain should be warming up for the
Madrid Open she's not there obviously
but the tournament goes on virtually and
in true Bianca form she's all getting
suited up in her basement a little drink
walk-on music some finger exercises for
that game control and some serious
commentary along with her moves damn it
if only I can hit these aces in new life
there was some glitches that were
happening but I mean I guess my
connection was just really really shitty
or I'm just not bad and practicing the
real thing is hard now I'm not hitting
everything's canceled like you can't go
in a park you can't use a tennis
facility you know so like there's no
driveway nearby
you could get one of those you know
balls on a string and I'd rather just
use my mind than do that the athlete in
her never quits and there's a new game
with dad Jess
she's definitely bringing like the
competitive aspect out of me and she's
okay
thankful every day she says for what she
has and for those on all the front lines
ultimately you are protecting all of
Canada so thank you
they are Team Canada they are Team
Canada so we should say that well Bianca
may have lost that online tournament a
familiar face one on the men's side Andy
Murray he donated half of his winnings
to the NHS and to a tennis development
charity they oppose said time spent
playing video games is time
well said we'll be right back with the
moment tonight it's something that once
upon a time seems so normal a hug from
grandma and grandma
for the latest corona virus pandemic
updates breaking news and top stories
download the CBC News app now
[Music]
this family in Mount Pearl Newfoundland
experienced a joyful reunion today when
the province implemented a rule to allow
two households to start socializing aka
the double bubble now the children
Finnegan five years old and Seamus three
years old they got to see their
grandparents for the first time since
the shutdown and that's tonight's moment
[Music]
Finnegan and Seamus are really close to
their grandparents they provide a
childcare for us for a long time and
they still do on a part-time basis they
have them two days a week so to kind of
go cold turkey without seeing them for a
long time it was really tough on all of
us you know they're their best buddy so
we've been having a couple of window
visits over the course of the last seven
weeks but trying to explain that to a
three year old and a five year old is
really difficult I know
okay so firstly of course they have a
cool name for the double bubble of
course Newfoundland would do that and
and I have to say the idea of coming up
with a list of people you want a hug is
kind of delicious to me yeah except the
hard part is you can only pick one other
household you got it you got to pick and
choose I don't even know how you begin
to make that choice that is a national
for April 30th good night today
[Music]
you